initial commit for iter() docs (#1180)
Codecademy/docs: content/python/concepts/iterators/terms/iter.md

---
Title: 'iter()'
Description: 'The iter() method is a python built-in function that returns an iterator object for a given argument.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Data Science'
Tags:
  - 'Iterators'
  - 'OOP'
  - 'Loops'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/data-science'
---

> The `iter()` method is a python built-in function that returns an iterator object for a given `object`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`iter()`** method is a python built-in function that returns an iterator object for a given `object`.
```

Author: @SSwiniarski  updated as requested adding bold for iter()

... must admit I'm a little lost with branch and github.
Everything seemed so easy in the tutorial ...

Reviewer: @mcuocolo, one of the Codecademy team will come by this entry and give a second review. You don't have to do anything.

## Syntax

```pseudo
iter(object, sentinel[optional])
```

## Parameters                                                                                                         
* **object** : Required. An iterable object such as list, str, and tuple.                                                                | 
* **sentinel** : Optional. If the object is a callable object the iteration will stop when the returned value is the same as the sentinel.<br/>If the second argument, sentinel, is given, then object must be a callable object. The iterator created in this case will call object with no arguments for each call to its __next__() method; if the value returned is equal to sentinel, StopIteration will be raised, otherwise the value will be returned. | 

## Example 1
The example below demonstrates how the `iter()` function is used in a Python program:

```py
cars = ['Ferrari', 'Lamborghini', 'Porsche']

cars_iter = iter(cars)

print(next(cars_iter))
print(next(cars_iter))
print(next(cars_iter))

#Output
#Ferrari
#Lamborghini
#Porsche
```

## Example 2 with optional parameter sentinel

> One useful application of the second form of iter() is to build a block-reader.  
> For example, reading fixed-width blocks from a binary database file until the end of file is reached:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example applies the optional `sentinel` parameter through a callable class object (though the `__call__()` method:

```

```py

> from functools import partial
> with open('mydata.db', 'rb') as f:
>     for block in iter(partial(f.read, 64), b''):
>         process_block(block)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
class codeNinjaCount:
  def __init__(self, greeting, num):
    self.greeting = greeting
    self.num = num
    print(f"{self.greeting}! Let's count:")
  
  def __call__(self):
    self.num += 1
    return self.num

codeNinjaIterable = iter(codeNinjaCount("Hello, World", 1), 10)

while True:
  try:
    print(next(codeNinjaIterable))
  except StopIteration:
    print("StopIteration Exception raised. Value returned was equal to sentinel value")
    break
```

The example you provided is almost exactly like the one given in the [official Python docs on `iter()`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#iter). I'd suggest using a Python class to demonstrate the `sentinel` parameter.

```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

This will produce the following output:

```

And then let's add a \```shell code block below that looks like this:

```shell
Hello, World! Let's count:
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
StopIteration Exception raised. Value returned was equal to sentinel value
```

Author: I don't understand this request.

Reviewer 2: @mcuocolo See the changes I applied [here](a66477c094d61e22195b61b43b777487f28fef52) to see what I mean.

> ## Using iter() with iterables

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Using iter() with iterables
```

> When using iterables, it is usually not necessary to call `iter()` or deal with iterator objects. The for statement does that automatically, creating a temporary unnamed variable to hold the iterator for the duration of the loop.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When using iterables, it usually isn't necessary to call `iter()` or deal with iterator objects. The `for` loop does this automatically by creating a temporary, unnamed variable to hold the iterator for the duration of the loop.
```

> Run the two code examples below to see that they produce the same results :

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following code examples use the `iter()` function and a `for` loop to produce the same results:
```

```codebyte/py
fruits = ['apple', 'orange', 'banana']

print("Example with iter() and next() : ")
fruits_iter = iter(fruits)

print(next(fruits_iter))   
print(next(fruits_iter))    
print(next(fruits_iter))   
print("------------------------------------")
print("Example with for loop : ")

> for fruit in fruits:
>     print(fruit)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
for fruit in fruits:
  print(fruit)
```

---
Title: 'iter()'
Description: 'The iter() method is a python built-in function that returns an iterator object for a given argument.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Data Science'
Tags:
  - 'Iterators'
  - 'OOP'
  - 'Loops'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/data-science'
---
The `iter()` method is a python built-in function that returns an iterator object for a given `object`.

## Syntax

```pseudo
iter(object, sentinel[optional])
```

> | Parameter  | Description                                                                                                               | 

Reviewer: This would be better as a bulleted list than a table.

Author: I'll change that.
(... was so happy to make markdown table ;-) )

Author: I added the requested bullet list

| sentinel   | Optional. If the object is a callable object the iteration will stop when the returned value is the same as the sentinel.<br/>If the second argument, sentinel, is given, then object must be a callable object. The iterator created in this case will call object with no arguments for each call to its __next__() method; if the value returned is equal to sentinel, StopIteration will be raised, otherwise the value will be returned. | 

## Example 1
The example below demonstrates how the `iter()` function is used in a Python program:

```py
cars = ['Ferrari', 'Lamborghini', 'Porsche']

cars_iter = iter(cars)

print(next(cars_iter))
print(next(cars_iter))
print(next(cars_iter))

#Output
#Ferrari
#Lamborghini
#Porsche
```

## Example 2 with optional parameter sentinel
One useful application of the second form of iter() is to build a block-reader.  
For example, reading fixed-width blocks from a binary database file until the end of file is reached:
```py
from functools import partial
with open('mydata.db', 'rb') as f:
    for block in iter(partial(f.read, 64), b''):
        process_block(block)
```

## Using iter() with iterables

> When using iterables, it is usually not necessary to call `iter()` or deal with iterator objects yourself. The for statement does that automatically for you, creating a temporary unnamed variable to hold the iterator for the duration of the loop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using iterables, it is usually not necessary to call `iter()` or deal with iterator objects. The for statement does that automatically, creating a temporary unnamed variable to hold the iterator for the duration of the loop.
```
